Read all of this leaflet carefully before 
you start taking this medicine because it 
contains important information for you.
- Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it 
again.
- If you have any further questions, ask your 
doctor or pharmacist.
- This medicine has been prescribed for you 
only. Do not pass it on to others. It may 
harm them, even if their signs of illness are 
the same as yours.
- If you get any side effects, talk to your 
doctor or pharmacist. This includes any 
possible side effects not listed in this leaflet. 
See section 4.
What is in this leaflet
1. What Ibuprofen is and what it is used for
2. What you need to know before you take 
Ibuprofen
3. How to take Ibuprofen
4. Possible side effects
5. How to store Ibuprofen
6. Contents of the pack and other information
1. What Ibuprofen is and what it is used for
Ibuprofen belongs to a group of medicines 
called NSAID (non-steroidal anti- inflammatory 
drugs) which work by reducing pain, 
inflammation and fever. 
Ibuprofen is used for the symptomatic treatment 
of mild to moderate pain including migraine 
headache period pain and/or fever. In addition, 
Ibuprofen is used for the symptomatic treatment 
of pain and inflammation in arthritic diseases 
(e.g. rheumatoid arthritis), degenerative arthritic 
conditions (e.g. osteoarthritis) and in painful 
swelling and inflammation aftersoft tissues 
injuries.
2. What you need to know before you take 
Ibuprofen
Do not take Ibuprofen:
- if you are allergic to ibuprofen or any of the 
other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). 
- if you have had allergic reactions such 
as asthma, runny nose, itchy skin rash or 
swelling of the lips, face, tongue, or throat 
after you have taken medicines containing 
acetylsalicylic acid (such as aspirin) or other 
drugs for pain and inflammation (NSAIDs).
- if you have suffered from gastrointestinal 
bleeding or perforation related to previous 
use of drugs for pain and inflammation 
(NSAIDs) 
- if you are suffering from an ulcer or 
bleeding in the stomach or small intestine 
(duodenum) or if you have had two or more 
of these episodes in the past 
- if you suffer from severe liver, kidney or 
heart problems 
- if you are in the last 3 months of pregnancy 
- if you are suffering from significant 
dehydration (caused by vomiting, diarrhoea 
or insufficient fluid intake) 
- if you have any active bleeding (including in 
the brain) 
- if you suffer from a condition of unknown 
origin resulting in abnormal formation of 
blood cells 
Do not give Ibuprofen to children below 20 kg 
body weight or younger than 6 years.
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor before taking Ibuprofen 
- if you have Systemic Lupus erythematosus 
(SLE) or mixed connective tissue diseases 
- if you have inherited a disorder of the red 
blood pigment haemoglobin (porphyria) 
- if you have chronic inflammatory intestinal 
diseases such as inflammation of the colon 
with ulcers (ulcerative colitis), inflammation 
affecting the digestive tract (Crohn’s 
disease) or other stomach or intestinal 
diseases 
- if you have disturbances in the formation of 
blood cells 
- if you have problems with normal blood 
clotting mechanism 
- if you suffer from allergies, hay fever, 
asthma, chronic swelling of nasal mucosa, 
sinuses, adenoids, or chronic obstructive 
disorders of the respiratory tract because 
the risk for developing narrowing of 
the airways with difficulty in breathing 
(bronchospasm) is greater 
- if you have liver, kidney, or heart 
problems 
- if you have just had major surgery 
- if you are in the first six months of 
pregnancy 
- if you are breast-feeding
- if you have an infection - please see 
heading “Infections” below
Infections 
Ibuprofen may hide signs of 
infections such as fever and pain. It 
is therefore possible that Ibuprofen 
may delay appropriate treatment 
of infection, which may lead to an 
increased risk of complications. This 
has been observed in pneumonia 
caused by bacteria and bacterial 
skin infections related to chickenpox. 
If you take this medicine while you 
have an infection and your symptoms 
of the infection persist or worsen, 
consult a doctor without delay.
Elderly 
If you are elderly you will be more prone to side 
effects, especially bleeding and perforation in 
the digestive tract, which may be fatal. 
Ulcers, perforation and bleeding in the stomach 
or intestines 
If you have earlier had an ulcer in the stomach 
or intestines, especially if this has been 
complicated by perforation or accompanied by 
bleeding, you should look out for any unusual 
symptoms in the abdomen, and report them 
at once to your doctor, especially if these 
symptoms occur at the beginning of treatment. 
This is because the risk for bleeding or 
ulceration of the digestive tract is higher in this 
case, especially in elderly patients. If bleeding 
or ulceration of the digestive tract occurs, the 
treatment has to be stopped.
Bleeding, ulceration or perforation in the 
stomach or intestines may occur without any 
warning signs even in patients who have never 
had such problems before. It may also be fatal.
The risk of ulcers, perforation or bleeding in 
the stomach or intestines generally increases 
with higher doses of ibuprofen. The risk also 
increases if certain other medicines are taken 
at the same time as ibuprofen (see other 
medicines and ibuprofen, below). 
Undesirable effects may be minimised by 
using the lowest effective dose for the shortest 
duration necessary to control symptoms.
Skin reactions 
Serious skin reactions have been reported 
in association with Ibuprofen treatment. 
You should stop taking Ibuprofen tablet and 
seek medical attention immediately, if you 
develop any skin rash, lesions of the mucous 
membranes, blisters or other signs of allergy 
since this can be the first signs of a very serious 
skin reaction. See section 4.
During varicella it is advisable to avoid use of 
this drug. 
Effects on the heart and brain 
Anti-inflammatory/pain-killer medicines like 
ibuprofen may be associated with a small 
increased risk of heart attack or stroke, 
particularly when used at high doses. Do not 
exceed the recommended dose or duration of 
treatment. 
You should discuss your treatment with your 
doctor or pharmacist before taking Ibuprofen if 
you: 
• have heart problems including heart failure, 
angina (chest pain), or if you have had a 
heart attack, bypass surgery, peripheral 
artery disease (poor circulation in the legs 
or feet due to narrow or blocked arteries), or 
any kind of stroke (including ‘mini-stroke’ or 
transient ischaemic attack “TIA”).
• have high blood pressure, diabetes, high 
cholesterol, or have a family history of heart 
disease or stroke, or if you are a smoker. 
Effects on the kidneys 
Ibuprofen may cause problems with kidney 
function even in patients who have not had 
kidney problems before. This may result in 
swelling of the legs and may even lead to heart 
failure or high blood pressure in predisposed 
individuals. 
Ibuprofen may cause kidney damage especially 
in patients who already have kidney, heart or 
liver problems, or are taking diuretics or ACE 
inhibitors, as well as in the elderly. Stopping 
Ibuprofen however generally leads to recovery. 
Aseptic meningitis (inflammation of the brain 
membrane without bacterial infection) 
During treatment with ibuprofen, some cases of 
meningitis (presenting as stiff neck, headache, 
nausea, vomiting, fever or disorientation) 
have been seen. Although it is probably 
more likely to occur in patients with existing 
autoimmune disorders such as systemic lupus 
erythematosus or mixed connective tissue 
diseases, it has been reported in patients who 
do not have an existing long-term disease. 
Other precautions 
Very rarely, severe acute hypersensitivity 
reactions (e.g. anaphylactic shock) have been 
observed. Stop treatment immediately at the 
first signs of hypersensitivity reaction after 
taking Ibuprofen and tell immediately to your 
doctor.
Ibuprofen can temporarily inhibit blood platelet 
function (blood platelet aggregation). Patients 
with blood clotting disorders should therefore be 
carefully monitored.
Prolonged use of any type of pain killer for 
headaches can make them worse. If this 
situation is experienced or suspected, stop 
taking ibuprofen and consult your doctor. The 
diagnosis of medication overuse headache 
(MOH) should be suspected in patients who 
have frequent or daily headaches despite 
(or because of) the regular use of headache 
medications.
The habitual use of painkillers may cause 
permanent damage to the kidneys and a risk of 
kidney failure. 
Ibuprofen may hide the symptoms or signs 
of an infection (fever, pain and swelling) and 
temporarily prolong bleeding time. 
Ibuprofen may decrease your chance of 
becoming pregnant. You should inform your 
doctor if you are planning to become pregnant 
or if you have problems becoming pregnant. 
Children and adolescents 
Ibuprofen is contraindicated in children below 
20 kg body weight or younger than 6 years of 
age (See section 3). 
Ibuprofen may cause kidney problems in 
children and adolescents who are dehydrated.
Other medicines and Ibuprofen 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, 
have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines.
Ibuprofen may affect or be affected by some 
other medicines.
For example:
- other NSAIDs including COX-2 inhibitors, 
since this may increase the risk of 
gastrointestinal ulcers and bleeding 
- anticoagulants (against clotting) such as 
warfarin or heparin, since the effect of the 
anticoagulant may be enhanced
- platelet aggregation inhibitors (against 
clotting) such as clopidogrel and ticlopidine 
- methotrexate (used to treat cancer and 
auto-immune diseases) 
- digoxin (for treatment of various heart 
conditions) since the effect of digoxin may 
be enhanced 
- phenytoin (used in prevention of the 
occurrence of epileptic seizures) since the 
effect of phenytoin may be enhanced 
- lithium (used to treat depression and mania) 
since the effect of lithium may be enhanced 
- diuretics (water tablets) since the effect of 
the diuretics may be weakened, 
- potassium-sparing diuretics since this may 
lead to hyperkalaemia
- medicines that reduce high blood pressure 
(ACE-inhibitors such as captopril, betablockers such as atenolol medicines, 
angiotensin-II receptor antagonists such as 
losartan) 
- cholestyramine (used in the treatment of 
high cholesterol) 
- aminoglycosides (medicines against certain 
types of bacteria) since NSAIDs may 
decrease excretion of aminoglycosides 
- SSRIs (medicines against depression) 
such as paroxetin, sertralin, citalopram as 
these may increase risk of gastrointestinal 
bleeding 
- ciclosporine, tacrolimus (for immunosuppression after organ transplant) since 
kidney damage may occur 
- zidovudine or ritanovir (used to treat 
patients with HIV) 
- mifepristone since NSAIDs can reduce the 
effect of mifepristone 
- probenecid or sulfinpyrazone (for treating 
gout) since the excretion of ibuprofen may 
be delayed 
- quinolone antibiotics since the risk of 
convulsions (fits) may be increased 
- sulphonylureas (to treat type 2 diabetes) 
since the blood sugar levels can be affected 
- glucocorticoids (used against inflammations) 
since this may increase the risk of 
gastrointestinal ulcers or bleeding 
- bisphosphonates (used in osteoporosis, 
Paget’s disease and to reduce high blood 
calcium levels) 
- oxpentifylline ((pentoxifylline) used in the 
treatment of circulatory disease of the 
arteries of the legs or arms) 
- baclofen (a muscle relaxant) because of 
elevated baclofen toxicity
- Gingko biloba herbal medicine (there is a 
chance you may bleed more easily if you 
are taking this with ibuprofen).
- voriconazole and fluconazole (CYP2C9 
inhibitors) (used for fungal infections), 
since the effect of ibuprofen may increase. 
Reduction of the ibuprofen dose should be 
considered, particularly when high-dose 
ibuprofen is used with either voriconazole or 
fluconazole.
Some other medicines may also affect or be 
affected by the treatment of Ibuprofen. You 
should therefore always seek the advice of your 
doctor or pharmacist before you use Ibuprofen 
with other medicines.
Ibuprofen with alcohol 
Avoid alcohol since it may enhance the side 
effects of Ibuprofen, especially those affecting 
the stomach, intestines or central nervous 
system.
Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think 
you may be pregnant or are planning to have a 
baby, ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice 
before taking this medicine. 
Ibuprofen must not be taken in the last 3 
months of pregnancy since it may cause major 
heart, lung and kidney disorders in the unborn 
child. If used at the end of pregnancy, it may 
cause bleeding tendencies in both mother 
and child and weaken the strength of uterine 
contractions delaying the onset of delivery. 
Treatment during the first 6 months of 
pregnancy will only be prescribed by your 
doctor if clearly necessary. 
Ibuprofen may make it more difficult to become 
pregnant. You should inform your doctor if you 
are planning to become pregnant or if you have 
problems becoming pregnant. 
Ibuprofen appears in breast milk in a very small 
amount and breastfeeding will usually not need 
to be stopped during short-term treatments. If, 
however, longer treatment is prescribed, early 
weaning should be considered.
Driving and using machines
Ibuprofen generally has no adverse effects 
on the ability to drive or operate machinery. 
However since at high dosage side effects such 
as fatigue, somnolence, vertigo (reported as 
common) and visual disturbances (reported as 
uncommon) may be experienced, the ability 
to take part actively in road traffic or operate 
machinery may be impaired in individual cases. 
This effect is potentiated by simultaneous 
consumption of alcohol.
Ibuprofen contain Sodium: This medicine 
contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per 
200 mg/ 400 mg film-coated tablets, that is to 
say essentially ‘sodium-free’.
3. How to take Ibuprofen
Always take this medicine exactly as your 
doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or 
pharmacist if you are not sure. 
Undesirable effects may be minimised by 
using the lowest effective dose for the shortest 
duration necessary to control symptoms.
The lowest effective dose should be used 
for the shortest duration necessary to relieve 
symptoms. If you have an infection, consult a 
doctor without delay if symptoms (such as fever 
and pain) persist or worsen (see section 2).
The treating physician decides on the duration 
of treatment. 
In rheumatic diseases the use of Ibuprofen 
can be required for a longer period.
Ibuprofen is contraindicated in children 
below 20 kg body weight or younger than 
6 years of age. (See section 2). 
Package leaflet: Information for the user
Ibuprofen 200 mg filmcoated tablets
Ibuprofen 400 mg filmcoated tablets
P15XXXXX
Black
Half Fold: 370 mm
Ibuprofen 200 mg film-coated tablets
The ibuprofen dose depends on the patient’s 
age and body weight. The maximum single 
dose for adults should not be greater than 
800 mg of ibuprofen (4 tablets). The 
recommended dose is: 
Mild to moderate pain and fever 
Adults and adolescents older than 12 years 
(≥40 kg): 
1-2 tablets given as a single dose or 3-4 times 
a day with an interval of 6 hours. The maximum 
daily dose should not exceed 6 tablets (1200 mg). 
Children 6-12 years (>20 kg): 
Children 6-9 years (20-29 kg): 1 tablet 1-3 times 
a day with intervals of 4 to 6 hours as required. 
The maximum number of tablets should not 
exceed 3 tablets in one day. 
Children 10-12 years (30-40 kg): 1 tablet 1-4 
times a day with intervals of 4 to 6 hours as 
required. The maximum number of tablets 
should not exceed 4 tablets in one day. 
Migraine headache
Adults and adolescents older than 12 years 
(>40 kg):
2 tablets given as a single dose, if necessary
2 tablets with intervals of 4 to 6 hours.
The maximum daily dose should not exceed 
6 tablets (1200 mg).
Period pain
Adults and adolescents over 12 years of age: 
1-2 tablets 1-3 times a day, with an interval of 
4-6 hours, as needed. The maximum daily dose 
should not be more than 6 tablets (1200 mg). 
Rheumatic diseases 
Adults: 
The recommended dose is 2-3 tablets daily in 
divided doses. Lower doses may be prescribed 
by your doctor. Due to the nature and severity 
of your condition, the doctor may increase your 
medication to a maximum of 12 tablets 
(2400 mg) daily, taken in 3 or 4 divided doses. 
Adolescents from 15 to 17 years of age: 
The recommended dose is 20 mg/kg to a 
maximum of 40 mg/kg body weight daily (max 
2400 mg daily) in 3 to 4 divided doses. 
The tablet should be swallowed with a glass 
of water, preferably after a meal. Patients 
with sensitive stomach are recommended to 
take Ibuprofen during a meal. For the ease of 
swallowing or adjusting of doses the tablets can 
be divided in equal halves. 
If a child or adolescent requires this medicine 
for more than 3 days, or if symptoms worsen, a 
doctor should be consulted. 
Ibuprofen 400 mg film-coated tablets
The ibuprofen dose depends on the patient’s 
age and body weight. The maximum single 
daily dose for adults should not be greater 
than 800 mg of ibuprofen (2 tablets).The 
recommended dose is: 
Mild to moderate pain and fever 
Adults and adolescents ≥40 kg (12 years and 
above): 
½ (half tablet) to 1 tablet given as a single dose 
or 3-4 times a day with an interval of 6 hours as 
required. The maximum daily dose should not 
exceed 3 tablets (1200 mg). 
Paediatric population 
Children ≥20 kg body weight (6-11 years): 
Other preparations may be more suitable for 
this age group. Your doctor will advise you 
accordingly. 
Children 20-29 kg (6-9 years): ½ half tablet 
1-3 times a day with intervals of 6 hours as 
required. The maximum number of tablets 
should not exceed 1½ (one and half) tablet in 
one day.
Children 30-39 kg body weight (10-11 years): 
½ half tablet 1-4 times a day with intervals of 
6 hours as required. The maximum number of 
tablets should not exceed 2 tablets in one day.
Migraine headache
Adults and adolescents ≥40 kg body weight (12 
years and above):
1 tablet given as a single dose, if necessary 1 
tablet with intervals of 6 hours.
The maximum daily dose should not exceed 3 
tablets (1200 mg).
Period pain
Adults and adolescents >40 kg body weight (12 
years of age and above):
½ (half tablet) -1 tablet 1-3 times a day, with an 
interval of 6 hours as needed. 
The maximum daily dose should not be more 
than 3 tablets (1200 mg).
Rheumatic diseases
Adults:
The recommended dose is 3-4½ (four 
and half) tablets (1200 mg- 1800 mg) 
daily in divided doses. Lower doses may 
be prescribed by your doctor.
Due to the severity of your condition, the 
doctor may increase your medication to 
a maximum of 6 tablets (2400 mg) daily, 
taken in 3 or 4 divided doses.
Adolescents from 15 to 17 years of age:
The recommended dose is 20 mg/kg to 
a maximum of 40 mg/kg body weight 
daily (max 2400 mg daily)in 3 to 4 
divided doses. Your doctor will advise 
you accordingly.
The tablet should be swallowed with a glass 
of water, preferably after a meal. Patients 
with sensitive stomach are recommended to 
take Ibuprofen during a meal. For the ease of 
swallowing or adjusting of doses the tablets can 
be divided in equal halves.
Elderly 
If you are elderly you will be more prone to 
side effects, especially bleeding ulceration and 
perforation in the digestive tract, which may be 
fatal. Your doctor will advise you accordingly. 
Reduced kidney or liver function 
If you suffer from reduced kidney or liver 
function, your doctor will advise you 
accordingly. 
If you take more Ibuprofen than you should 
If you have taken more ibuprofen than you 
should, or if children have taken this medicine 
by accident always contact a doctor or nearest 
hospital to get an opinion of the risk and advice 
on action to be taken.
The symptoms can include nausea, stomach 
pain, vomiting (may be blood streaked), or 
more rarely diarrhoea. In addition, headache, 
gastrointestinal bleeding, blurred vision, 
ringing in the ears, confusion and shaky 
eye movement, and exacerbation of asthma 
in asthmatics. At high doses, drowsiness, 
excitation, disorientation, chest pain, 
palpitations, loss of consciousness, convulsions 
(mainly in children), vertigo, weakness and 
dizziness, blood in urine, low blood pressure, 
hyperkalaemia, metabolic acidosis, increased 
prothrombin time/INR, acute renal failure, liver 
damage, respiratory depression, cyanosis, cold 
body feeling, and breathing problems have 
been reported.
If you forget to take Ibuprofen 
Do not take a double dose to make up for a 
forgotten dose. 
If you have any further questions on the use of 
this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist.
4. Possible side effects
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side 
effects, although not everybody gets them. 
With regard to the following side effects, it must 
be considered that they are largely dependent 
on the dose and that they vary from patient to 
patient.
The most commonly observed side effects 
are gastrointestinal in nature. Peptic ulcers, 
perforation or gastrointestinal bleeding, 
sometimes fatal, particularly in the elderly, may 
occur. Nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, flatulence, 
constipation, indigestion, abdominal pain, 
melaena, heamatemesis, ulcerative stomatits, 
exacerbation of colitis and Crohn’s disease 
have been reported following administration. 
Less frequently, inflammation of the stomach 
lining (gastritis) has been observed.
Medicines such as Ibuprofen may be 
associated with a small increased risk of heart 
attack (myocardial infraction) or stroke. Water 
retention (oedema), high blood pressure and 
heart failure have been reported in association 
with NSAIDs. 
The side effects are stated according to the 
frequency they occur. The following convention 
has been used: 
Very common: may affect more than 1 in 10 
people 
Common: may affect up to 1 in 10 people 
Uncommon: may affect up to 1 in 100 people 
Rare: may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people 
Very rare: may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people 
Not known: frequency cannot be estimated from 
the available data 
The following side effects are important and 
will require immediate action if you experience 
them. You should stop taking Ibuprofen and 
see your doctor immediately if the following 
symptoms occur: 
Common: 
- black tarry stools or blood-stained vomit 
(digestive tract ulcer with bleeding) 
Very rare: 
- swelling of the face, tongue or throat (larynx) 
which can cause great difficulty in breathing 
(angioedema), rapid heartbeat, severe fall in 
blood pressure or life threatening shock 
- a sudden allergic reaction with shortness 
of breath, wheezing and drop of blood 
pressure 
- severe rash with blisters on the skin 
especially on the legs, arms, hands and 
feet which can also involve the face and lips 
(erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson´s 
syndrome). This can get even more severe, 
the blisters get larger and spread out and 
parts of the skin may slough off (Lyell´s 
syndrome). There may also be severe 
infection with destruction (necrosis) of 
skin, subcutaneous tissue and muscle 
(necrotizing fasciitis) 
You should stop taking the medicine and 
contact your doctor as soon as possible if you 
develop the following side effects: 
Very common: 
- heartburn, abdominal pain, indigestion 
Uncommon: 
- visual distrubances 
- hypersensitivity reactions such as hives, 
itching, purpura, exanthema, asthma attacks 
(sometimes with low blood pressure) 
- photosensitivity (increased sensitivity to 
sunlight)
Rare: 
- vision loss 
Very rare: 
- sudden filling of lungs with water resulting 
in difficulty to breathe, high blood pressure, 
water retention and weight gain 
Other possible side effects with Ibuprofen are:
Very common: 
- Disturbances in the digestive tract, such 
as diarrhoea, feeling sick, vomiting, wind, 
constipation 
Common: 
- Digestive tract ulcer with or without 
perforation 
- Bowel inflammation and worsening of 
inflammation of the colon (colitis) and 
digestive tract (Crohn’s disease) and 
complications of diverticula of the large 
bowel (perforation or fistula) 
- Microscopic bleeding from the intestine 
which may result in anemia 
- Mouth ulcers and inflammation (ulcerative 
stomatitis)
- Headache, sleepiness, vertigo, dizziness, 
fatigue, agitation, insomnia and irritability 
Uncommon: 
- Inflammation of the stomach lining 
- Kidney problems including development of 
oedema, inflammation of the kidneys and 
kidney failure 
- Runny nose 
- Difficulty breathing (bronchospasm) 
Rare: 
- Depression, confusion, hallucinations 
- Lupus erythematosus syndrome 
- Increase of blood urea nitrogen, serum 
transaminases and alkaline phosphatase 
decrease in haemoglobin and haematocrit 
values, inhibition of platelet aggregation and 
prolonged bleeding time, decrease of serum 
calcium and increase in serum uric acid 
values 
- Damage of the kidney tissue
Very rare: 
- Unpleasant awareness of heart beat, heart 
failure or heart attack 
- Disorders of blood cell formation 
(anaemia, leucopenia, thrombocytopenia, 
pancytopenia, agranulocytosis, neutropenia) 
The first symptoms or signs may include 
fever, sore throat, surface mouth ulcers, flulike symptoms, severe fatigue, nasal and 
skin bleeding) 
- Ringing or buzzing in the ears 
- Inflammation of the oesophagus or 
pancreas 
- Narrowing of the bowel 
- Acute inflammation of the liver, yellowish 
discolouration of the skin or whites of the 
eyes, liver dysfunction, damage or failure 
- liver damage especially in long-term use or 
liver failure
- Hair loss 
- Inflammation of the brain membrane without 
bacterial infection (aseptic meningitis)
Not known: 
- Tingling of the hands and feet 
- Anxiety 
- Impaired hearing 
- General feeling of being unwell 
- Inflammation of the optic nerve which may 
cause vision problems 
- A severe skin reaction known as DRESS 
syndrome can occur. Symptoms of DRESS 
include: skin rash, fever, swelling of lymph 
nodes and an increase of eosinophils (a 
type of white blood cells).
- A red, scaly widespread rash with bumps 
under the skin and blisters mainly localized 
on the skin folds, trunk, and upper 
extremities accompanied by fever at the 
initiation of treatment (acute generalised 
exanthematous pustulosis). Stop using 
Ibuprofen tablets if you develop these 
symptoms and seek medical attention 
immediately. See also section 2.
Ibuprofen may cause a reduction in the number 
of white blood cells and your resistance to 
infection may be decreased. If you experience 
an infection with symptoms such as fever and 
serious deterioration of your general condition, 
or fever with local infection symptoms such as 
sore throat/pharynx/mouth or urinary problems 
you should see your doctor immediately. A 
blood test will be taken to check possible 
reduction of white blood cells (agranulocytosis). 
It is important to inform your doctor about your 
medicine.
Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor 
or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also 
report side effects directly via the national 
reporting system listed in Yellow Card Scheme 
Website: www.mhra.gov.uk/yellowcard or 
search for MHRA Yellow Card in the Google 
Play or Apple App Store. By reporting side 
effects you can help provide more information 
on the safety of this medicine.
5. How to store Ibuprofen
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of 
children.
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date 
which is stated on the carton after EXP. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month.
This medicine does not require any special 
storage conditions.
Do not throw away any medicines via 
wastewater or household waste. Ask your 
pharmacist how to throw away medicines you 
no longer use. These measures will help protect 
the environment.
6. Contents of the pack and other 
information
What Ibuprofen contains 
- The active substances isIbuprofen.
Each film-coated tablet contains 200 mg 
ibuprofen. 
Each film-coated tablet contains 400 mg 
ibuprofen. 
- The other ingredients are: 
Tablet core: Maize starch, starch, 
pregelatinised (maize starch), silica, 
colloidal anhydrous, croscarmellose sodium, 
talc, stearic acid.
Film coating: Talc (E553b), polyvinyl 
alcohol, macrogol 3350 (E1521), titanium 
dioxide (E171).
What Ibuprofen looks like and contents of 
the pack
Film-coated tablet.
Ibuprofen 200 mg film-coated tablet 
White to off-white, round shaped, film-coated 
tablets with break line on one side and plain on 
the other side. The tablet can be divided into 
equal doses.
Ibuprofen 400 mg film-coated tablet 
White to off-white, round shaped, film-coated 
tablets with break line on one side and plain on 
the other side. The tablet can be divided into 
equal doses.
Ibuprofen film-coated tablets are available in 
blister packs
Pack sizes: 10, 20, 24, 30, 40, 50, 56, 60, 84 
and 100 film-coated tablets
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
Marketing Authorisation Holder and 
Manufacturer
Milpharm Limited 
Ares Block, Odyssey Business Park
West End Road
Ruislip HA4 6QD
United Kingdom
or
Generis Farmacêutica, S.A.
Rua João de Deus, 19, Amadora, 2700-
487, Portugal
This leaflet was last revised in 06/2020.
P15XXXXX
Half Fold: 370 mm