1665 Pharmacode 1665 Pharmacode 1665 Pharmacode
PACKAGE LEAFLET – INFORMATION FOR THE USER
PARACETAMOL 500mg TABLETS
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it 
contains important information for you.
• Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again
• If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist
• Do not pass this medicine on to others. It may harm them, even if their signs of illness are the 
same as yours
• If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet.
What is in this leaflet:
1. What paracetamol is and what it is used for
2. What you need to know before you take paracetamol
3. How to take paracetamol
4. Possible side effects
5. How to store paracetamol
6. Contents of the pack and other information
1. WHAT PARACETAMOL IS AND WHAT IT IS USED FOR
The name of your medicine is Paracetamol 500mg Tablets (called paracetamol throughout this leaflet). 
This medicine contains paracetamol. It belongs to a group of medicines called analgesics (painkillers) and 
is used to treat pain (including headache, toothache, back and period pain) and cold or flu symptoms.
2. WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW BEFORE YOU TAKE PARACETAMOL
Do not take paracetamol and tell your doctor if:
• You are allergic to the active substance or any of the other ingredients in your medicine (listed in 
Section 6) 
Signs of an allergic reaction include a rash and breathing problems. There can also be swelling of 
the legs, arms, face, throat or tongue
Children
Paracetamol 500mg Tablets must not be given to children under 10 years of age
Do not take paracetamol if any of the above apply to you. If you are not sure, talk to your doctor or 
pharmacist before taking paracetamol.
Warnings and precautions
Take special care and check with your doctor before taking paracetamol if:
• You have severe kidney or liver problems
• You have a liver problem caused by alcohol
If you are not sure if any of the above apply to you, talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking 
this medicine.
Other medicines and paracetamol
Please tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking or have recently taken any other medicines. 
This includes medicines obtained without a prescription, including herbal medicines. This is because 
paracetamol can affect the way some other medicines work. Also, some other medicines can affect 
the way paracetamol works.
While taking paracetamol you should not take any other medicines which contain 
paracetamol.
This includes some painkillers, cough and cold remedies. It also includes a wide range of other 
medicines available from your doctor and more widely in shops.
Please inform your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking:
• flucloxacillin (antibiotic), due to a serious risk of blood and fluid abnormality (high anion gap 
metabolic acidosis) that must have urgent treatment and which may occur particularly in case of 
severe renal impairment, sepsis (when bacteria and their toxins circulate in the blood leading to 
organ damage), malnutrition, chronic alcoholism, and if the maximum daily doses of paracetamol 
are used.
Tell your doctor if you are taking any of the following medicines:
• Medicines used to thin the blood such as warfarin
• Metoclopramide or domperidone - used to stop you feeling sick (nausea) or being sick (vomiting)
• Colestyramine - for lowering blood cholesterol levels
If you are not sure if any of the above apply to you, talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking paracetamol.
Taking paracetamol with alcohol
You should not drink whilst taking these tablets. Taking alcohol with paracetamol can increase your 
chances of getting side effects.
Pregnancy and breast-feeding
Talk to your doctor before taking these tablets if:
• You are pregnant, think you may be pregnant or plan to get pregnant
• You are breast-feeding or planning to breast-feed
If necessary, paracetamol can be used during pregnancy. You should use the lowest possible 
dose that reduces your pain and/or your fever and use it for the shortest time possible. Contact 
your doctor or midwife if the pain and/or fever are not reduced or if you need to take the medicine 
more often.
[932019]
ZEN-A-0166522-1i-GB-EX
LEAFLET PARACETAMOL 
500MG (UK) GB
1665 Pharmacode
3. HOW TO TAKE PARACETAMOL
Always take paracetamol exactly as instructed on this leaflet. Check with your doctor or pharmacist 
if you are not sure.
• Do not take more than the recommended dose • If you need to use this medicine for more than three days at a time, see your doctor
Adults and children over 16
• The usual dose of paracetamol is 2 tablets
• Swallow the tablets whole with a drink of water
• Wait at least 4 hours before taking another dose
• Do not take more than 4 doses in any 24-hour period
Use in children aged 10 to 15
• Take one tablet every four to six hours when necessary to a maximum of four doses in 24 hours.
Use in children under 10
Paracetamol 500mg Tablets should not be given to children under 10 years of age.
If you take more paracetamol than you should
• Talk to a doctor at once if you take too much of this medicine even if you feel well. This is because 
too much paracetamol can cause delayed, serious liver damage.
• Remember to take any remaining tablets and the pack with you. This is so the doctor knows what 
you have taken
If you forget to take paracetamol
If you forget to take a dose at the right time, take it as soon as you remember. However, do not take 
a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose. Remember to leave at least 4 hours between doses.
4. POSSIBLE SIDE EFFECTS
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. The 
following side effects may happen with this medicine:
Stop taking paracetamol and see a doctor or go to a hospital straight away if:
• You get swelling of the hands, feet, ankles, face, lips or throat which may cause difficulty in 
swallowing or breathing. You could also notice an itchy, lumpy rash (hives) or nettle rash (urticaria)
This may mean you are having an allergic reaction to paracetamol
• You get serious skin reactions. Very rare cases have been reported.
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if any of the following side effects gets serious or lasts 
longer than a few days:
• You get infections or bruise more easily than usual. This could be because of a blood problem 
(such as agranulocytosis, neutropenia or thrombocytopenia). This side effect has only happened in 
a few people taking paracetamol
Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects not 
listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the Yellow card Scheme at: 
www.mhra.gov.uk/yellowcard or search for MHRA Yellow Card in the Google Play or Apple App Store. 
By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on the safety of this medicine.
5. HOW TO STORE PARACETAMOL
• Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
• Do not use this medicine after the expiry date shown on the pack. The expiry date refers to the last 
day of that month.
• Store your medicine in the original packaging in order to protect from moisture.
• Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how 
to throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment.
6. CONTENTS OF THE PACK AND OTHER INFORMATION
What Paracetamol 500mg Tablets contain
• The active substance is paracetamol. Each tablet contains 500mg of paracetamol.
• The other ingredients are maize starch, potassium sorbate, purified talc, stearic acid, povidone, 
and soluble starch.
Contents of pack
Paracetamol 500mg Tablets come in cartons of 16, 32 and 100. Not all pack sizes may be sold.
The Marketing Authorisation Holder is:
Zentiva Pharma UK Limited, 12 New Fetter Lane, London, EC4A 1JP, UK
The Manufacturer is: Zentiva Pharma UK Limited, Office 136-152, Austen House, 
Station View Units A-J, Guildford, GU1 4AR, UK
"Zentiva" is a registered trademark © 2022 Zentiva This leaflet was updated in May 2022.
FACE BACK